# Health Behavior Analysis

This is my proposed project for The Data Incubator.

I plan to use the public data about U.S. residents’ health-related risk behaviors and health conditions to find interesting statistical trends regarding human health as well as to provide personal health risk estimation based on statistical facts. The data is from Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS), which has been conducting health-related telephone surveys since 1984 and completes more than 400,000 adult interviews each year. The data set includes interviewers’ demographic data, their health-related risk behaviors, chronic health conditions, and use of preventive services. 

Here are some preliminary analysis shown with two figures. [Fig. 1](https://github.com/seedlingfl/Health-Behavior-Analysis/edit/master/marital_healthpercent.pdf) shows the percentage of people under good or excellent health condition in population groups with different marital status. The healthy percentages in divorced, widowed or separated population groups are even lower than the percentage in population of more than 65 years old. Intuitively, one would think unhappy marital status could be related to mental problems but not physical health issues. To verify, right panel of [Fig. 1](https://github.com/seedlingfl/Health-Behavior-Analysis/edit/master/marital_healthpercent.pdf) shows the mean number of reported unhealthy days during the past 30 days for physical and mental problems separately, indicating that there are more physical problems for people in unhappy marital status (divorced, widowed or separated) than other populations. The unhealthiest group both physically and mentally is the group of “separated”. 

Knowing that marital status is correlated with both physical and mental health, I further study the health-related behaviors by dividing the total population into two groups: bad marital status (divorced, widowed, separated) and normal one (married, never married, unmarried couple). [Fig. 2](https://github.com/seedlingfl/Health-Behavior-Analysis/edit/master/marital_healthbehavior.pdf) shows that the percentages of population with unhealthy behaviors like current smoking and insufficient exercise are higher in bad-marital group than those of the normal group, while heavy drinker percentages are about the same. Also, the average vegetable intake of the bad-marital group is slightly less than that of the normal group. 
